Add guide for building k6 with extensions using docker (#1064)
grafana/k6-docs: src/data/markdown/docs/07 extensions/03 Guides/build-k6-using-docker.md

---
title: 'Build a k6 binary using Docker'
excerpt: ''
hideFromSidebar: false
---

> The easiest way to use [xk6](https://github.com/grafana/xk6) is via our [Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/xk6/). This avoids having to setup a local Go environment, and install xk6 manually.

Author: Seems reasonable to me. Will update.

  --with github.com/mostafa/xk6-kafka@v0.17.0 \
  --with github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb@v0.3.0
```

```bash
docker run --rm -e GOOS=darwin -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" -v "${PWD}:/xk6" \
  grafana/xk6 build v0.43.1 \
  --with github.com/mostafa/xk6-kafka@v0.17.0 \
  --with github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb@v0.3.0
```

```powershell
docker run --rm -e GOOS=windows -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" -v "${PWD}:/xk6" `
  grafana/xk6 build v0.43.1 --output k6.exe `
  --with github.com/mostafa/xk6-kafka@v0.17.0 `
  --with github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb@v0.3.0
```

```batch
docker run --rm -e GOOS=windows -v "%cd%:/xk6" ^
  grafana/xk6 build v0.43.1 --output k6.exe ^
  --with github.com/mostafa/xk6-kafka@v0.17.0 ^
  --with github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb@v0.3.0
```

</CodeGroup>

This would create a `k6` (or `k6.exe`) binary in the current working directory.

## Breaking down the command

We'll admit, the example command line looks terrifying. Let's focus on the first part, which pertains strictly to Docker:

```bash
docker run --rm -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" -v "${PWD}:/xk6"
```

This tells Docker to run a new container from an image. 

> `--rm` means the container will be destroyed once your build is completed.
> `-u` specifies the user and group IDs of the account on the host machine. This is important for the `k6` file to have the same file permissions as the host user.
> `-v` is required to mount the current working directory inside the container, so that the `k6` binary can be written to it.

Reviewer: A list, for clarity?

```suggestion
- `--rm` means the container will be destroyed once your build is completed.
- `-u` specifies the user and group IDs of the account on the host machine. This is important for the `k6` file to have the same file permissions as the host user.
- `-v` is required to mount the current working directory inside the container, so that the `k6` binary can be written to it.
```

Side note: we should probably link to docker docs, not sure if to each section like https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/ for `-v`, as the link could break in the future?

<Blockquote mod="attention">

The use of `--replace` should be considered an advanced feature to be avoided unless required.

</Blockquote>

Referring back to our executed command, note that:
- We specify the version as `v0.43.1`. Had we specified `latest`, or omitted a version, would mean that we'll build using the _latest_ source code for k6. 
  Consider using a stable [release version](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases) as a best practice unless you genuinely want the _bleeding edge_.
- With each `--with`, we specified a full GitHub URI for the extension repository. 
  If not specifying a version, the default is `latest` once again. 
  Check your extension repository for stable release versions, if available, to lock in your version as we've done with `xk6-kafka@v0.17.0` and `xk6-output-influxdb@v0.3.0`.
- For Windows, we used the `--output` option to name our result as `k6.exe`; if not specified, our new binary is `k6` within the current directory.
  If a directory is specified, then the new binary would be `k6` within _that_ directory. 
  If a path to a non-existent file, e.g. `/tmp/k6-extended`, this will be the path and filename for the binary.

> Running `./k6 version` (or `k6.exe version`) should show your build is based upon the appropriate version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `./k6 version` (or `k6.exe version`) to check that your build is based on the appropriate `k6` version and contains the desired extensions. For example:
```

```
k6 v0.43.1 ((devel), go1.20.1, darwin/amd64)
Extensions:
  github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb v0.3.0, xk6-influxdb [output]
  github.com/mostafa/xk6-kafka v0.17.0, k6/x/kafka [js]
```

> 

Reviewer: Missing a block code with the output, I don't know how to suggest that 😞 

```
k6 v0.43.1 ((devel), go1.20.1, darwin/amd64)
Extensions:
  github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb v0.3.0, xk6-influxdb [output]
  github.com/mostafa/xk6-kafka v0.17.0, k6/x/kafka [js]
```

Author: Oops.
